Adds mc replicate diff command (#600)
minio/docs: source/reference/minio-mc/mc-replicate-diff.rst

.. _minio-mc-replicate-diff:

=====================
``mc replicate diff``
=====================

.. default-domain:: minio

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. mc:: mc replicate diff

Description

> ------

Reviewer: need to fill this decorator the rest of the way

Author: fixed

.. start-mc-replicate-diff-desc

> The :mc:`mc replicate diff` shows object versions that are not replicated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :mc:`mc replicate diff` shows object versions that are not replicated to the configured remote target.
```

We can configure multiple replication rules on a bucket right? If we have multiple remote arns, how does this work? Which remote do we check against, since prior to replication we have not yet determined which rule would hit (based on priority) 

Or does this only really work with site replication?

Author: `mc replicate` is bucket replication only, not site replication.
When the ARN is specified, the return is the replication status of the target ARN.
When not specified, the return is a general replication status of the bucket.

Added to the `arn` flag.

.. _minio-mc-replicate-diff:

=====================
``mc replicate diff``
=====================

.. default-domain:: minio

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. mc:: mc replicate diff

Description
-----------

.. start-mc-replicate-diff-desc

The :mc:`mc replicate diff` shows object versions that are not replicated, either generally for the bucket or to a specific remote bucket.

.. end-mc-replicate-diff-desc

Syntax
------

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: EXAMPLE

>       The following command shows unreplicated objects for the ``teamorange/projects`` prefix in the ``notes`` bucket for the ``myminio`` ALIAS:

Reviewer: Just to confirm - should we just specify `--arn` here so users from the outset understand how to use this?

Chances are they do not intend to get the default status, given that they can get that with `mc replicate info` anyways.

      .. code-block:: shell
         :class: copyable

         mc replicate diff myminio/notes/teamorange/projects

   .. tab-item:: SYNTAX

      The command has the following syntax:

      .. code-block:: shell
         :class: copyable

         mc [GLOBALFLAGS] replicate diff   \
                          [--arn "string"] \
                          TARGET

      .. include:: /includes/common-minio-mc.rst
         :start-after: start-minio-syntax
         :end-before: end-minio-syntax

Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~

.. mc-cmd:: TARGET
   :required:

   The path to the alias, prefix, or object.

.. mc-cmd:: arn
   :optional:

>    The Amazon Resource Number (ARN) to use for the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The Amazon Resource Number (ARN) of the remote replication target to use for the diff.
   
   Use :mc-cmd:`mc admin bucket remote ls` to retrieve the configured remote ARNs for the bucket.
```

Reviewer: Logic here is that ARN isn't helpful to the user - what we want them to provide is the remote ARN for their preferred target. We have to lead the user a bit here since we diverge from AWS in terms of how/where to get this .

Author: I added a graph at the top of the page with a link to the `mc admin bucket remote` heading that explains how to find lists of remote bucket ARNs.

>    When specified, the command returns the replication status of the ARN.

Reviewer: It should return the diff of source against that remote ARN right? vs the diff against any other configured remote on this bucket.

Author: Yeah, this was just wrong. It's a list of `PUT` or `DELETE` actions that have not yet replicated. Corrected.

   If not specified, the command returns the general replication status of the bucket.

Global Flags
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/common-minio-mc.rst
   :start-after: start-minio-mc-globals
   :end-before: end-minio-mc-globals

Examples
--------

View Unreplicated Versions of Objects at a Prefix
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Display unreplicated versions of objects for a prefix:

.. code-block:: shell
   :class: copyable

> 

Reviewer: Still a little confused here - without --arn , does this not just return the status?

Reviewer: Or does this behavior only matter if you have multiple remotes for a bucket?

Author: Corrected throughout. I was misunderstanding what this output.
It's a list of `PUT` and `DELETE` actions that have not yet replicated.

.. _minio-mc-replicate-diff:

=====================
``mc replicate diff``
=====================

.. default-domain:: minio

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. mc:: mc replicate diff

Description
-----------

.. start-mc-replicate-diff-desc

> The :mc:`mc replicate diff` shows a list of ``PUT`` or ``DELETE`` actions to objects and object versions that have not replicated to a remote bucket.

Reviewer: This is technically accurate, but I think a little hard to parse. Maybe...

shows a list of unreplicated new or deleted objects for a given remote bucket ?

.. end-mc-replicate-diff-desc

> You can specify a configured remote target ARN to shows ``PUT`` and ``DELETE`` actions that have not yet replicated to the specific remote target.

Reviewer: Clarifying question - this only applies for buckets with multiple ARNs? Do we default to something if unspecified?

If so maybe modify to

For buckets with multiple remote targets, you can specify the target ARN to show only objects not replicated to that remote.

Author: Deleted this per the next comment.

> To find the replication status of objects for a particular remote target, you must have the ARN of the remote target.

Reviewer: Actually I'd drop the previous paragraph for just this one.

You can use :ref:`retrieve the remote targets configured for a bucket <minio-retrieve-remote-bucket-targets>`.

Syntax
------

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: EXAMPLE

>       The following command shows unreplicated ``PUT`` or ``DELETE`` actions to objects and object versions to the remote target at ARN ``arn:minio:replication::3bb8c736-4014-42c5-b3cb-d64e3ebaa75e:notes`` for the ``teamorange/projects`` prefix in the ``notes`` bucket for the ``myminio`` ALIAS:

Reviewer: Same thought as above

Author: 👍

      .. code-block:: shell
         :class: copyable

         mc replicate diff myminio/notes/teamorange/projects --arn arn:minio:replication::3bb8c736-4014-42c5-b3cb-d64e3ebaa75e:notes

>       If any unreplicated actions exist, the command outputs something similar to the following:

Reviewer: Same thought on actions -> new or deleted objects, somehow

      .. code-block:: shell

         [0001-01-01 00:00:00 UTC] [2022-10-06 17:18:59 UTC]          478efe49-aa9d-46ab-8268-45b70cc4c341 PUT agenda.docx
         [0001-01-01 00:00:00 UTC] [2022-10-06 17:18:15 UTC]          b283bf43-319f-455a-a779-3c2e669fad88 PUT budget-meeting.docx

> 

Reviewer: Maybe here we can note that `PUT` corresponds to a new object, `DEL` corresponds to a deleted object.

Author: Added.
